# CS-230

Draw It or Lose, created by The Gaming Room, is a turn-based Android game that allows users to play a game like Pictionary – they see an image, guess what it is, and if correct, earn a point. If they are not correct, the opposing team is given a turn and can earn a point. Currently, it is only available on Android, and The Gaming Room asked that we investigate the requirements to port the game over to web, allowing iOS, desktop and even PlayStation and Xbox users access to the game. Requirements included, but were not limited to, creating, and storing usernames in a secure database, admin access to the usernames that is otherwise inaccessible to users, a sign in portal, and of course, functionality that matches across the platforms. 

I believe the research and time that went into this document mostly speaks for itself – I feel the Recommendations portion of the document is very well fleshed out, professional, educational, and well organized. I think this is set up in a manner that would answer initial questions, as well as open the floor to questions and concerns that had not been considered. 

Working through the design document helped to better flesh out the desired outcome of the code, making it a bit easier to determine what the next steps were when I got stuck. I feel that design documents are a valuable commodity and should be maintained and fully fleshed out prior to being given to developers – let the revamping happen in Microsoft word, before it gets to the IDE.

If I could revise one instance of the document, I would focus on the UML diagram and domain modal, as I feel that can be more fleshed out to better service the development aspect. I would start at the beginning, revamp it in a way that was clear and concise, and include pseudocode along with it, simply to think through the best way to organize the code. I had the wrong rubric up when working on the first portion, thus not realizing I was supposed to recreate and fix the UML diagram, so I wish I could go back in time and fix that. That is my mistake, and I am leaving that portion in as it was turned in to show my mistakes, and to grow from them. 

I approached the user’s needs as though they lucked their way into creating an Android based app and did not know anything about any other options. This led to research that went well beyond the scope of the class, and thus was an interesting way to further drive my education. Considering the needs and desires of the client is perhaps one of the more important steps when designing and implementing code – understanding what is wanted, needed and necessary allows time spent determining what is superfluous, thus minimizing time spent chasing a unicorn. 

Designing the software started with reading all available documents, as well as what I had created to the point of sitting down and writing code. In the future, I would create pseudocode to better map out how the program was intended to function so that I could ensure when I sat down to finally build it, I had spent a good amount of time thinking through the logic and requirements. 

